you can talk about
economics and the culture of capitalism
but you can also talk about mass media
and the way in which celebrity culture
has started to devour
the formerly dismal science of economics
that investment in economics has become
a form of mass media entertainment and
in the process
it is ruining people's lives the comment
in the top left
of the screen here is hiding in my room
this youtuber trying to clarify that
he's not joking
this isn't satire he really is
financially ruined
after heavily investing in the following
four stocks
back in january of 2021 all four had a
meteoric rise and then after a short
period of time
and after they stopped being over hyped
and celebrated the mass media they fell
down to earth
ruining this young man's personal
fortune
along with them remember last year i
made a video titled
um i invested 35 000
into the stock market and everyone was
calling me crazy and saying i was
gambling my money
turns out they were right and i ended up
losing
pretty much all of that money i remember
i got into stocks first last year around
october when i was living in rotterdam
when i was with leader
and when i was
gaining lots of money and my investments
were doing really well i felt
so great inside i felt like i'm actually
good at this
i felt like i was good at investing even
though i had only just started
i felt like i was some kind of stock
genius i was picking stocks and
following stock suggestions and
just putting my money into them and then
after a few weeks or a few months
they were up 10 20 30 and i was making
thousands
and i felt so great i felt like i didn't
need youtube anymore i felt like
this is my next true calling my next
step in life is to become like a pro
stock trader
i still feel hopeful that i won't lose
all of the money
i still feel hopeful that my stocks
eventually will go back up
um this week i got hit again
by more bad news because bloody elon
musk decided to tweet that he doesn't
like bitcoin anymore
and guess who decided to put the rest of
his remaining money
on bitcoin me i lost
the money i got from my dad's life
insurance payout i lost my only fans
money
i lost the money that i i earned from
destroying and sacrificing my marriage
and relationships
and my dignity
and my self-respect and that was all for
nothing now
because i don't even have the money to
show for it at least if i sacrificed my
marriage and relationships and dignity i
would have said
yeah well i've got all this money so
whatever i can't even say that now
because i don't even have the money
and i lost everyone in my life and i
lost like half my viewers on my channel
because
basically basically i said fu to the
viewers don't need you guys anymore
because i'm
so rich from my stocks i had
about 12 000 pounds which is i don't
know sixteen seventeen thousand dollars
i had about twelve thousand pounds in
gains
and i could have locked in the gains and
i'd be up i would have made
like twelve thousand pounds which would
have been amazing
but i got greedy and i kept thinking oh
no it's going to go up more
i have to wait this is a really good
stock to be in that's why it's going up
so much
and i kept thinking oh i just want to
make
20 000 and then i'll sell i want to make
30 000 and then i
then i'll sell i want to reach 100 000
this year and then i'll sell
and then stop doing such risky investing
and the greed just kind of took over me
and i refused to sell even when i was
watching it drop
and drop and drop i'm a nihilist and as
such i'm very sensitive to
very skeptical of the use of moral
language
in modern discourse and the way in which
religious concepts and attitudes creep
into secular life whenever i talk to
people who were so-called
atheist activists i'd have to say to
them one way or another look
what you call atheism just isn't enough
because people can be an atheist and
they can still believe in meditation
and they can still believe in yoga and
they can still believe in rock crystals
they can still believe in ghosts
they can still live in a world that's
infested
with ghosts and they can perceive the
world
in terms of abstractions and moral
commitments they've made
that are really quite religious in
nature what i
see happening with the interaction
between youtube
and the stock market is not
the emergence of a religion it's
people adopting religious attitudes
towards real world problems
in a manner that moralizes what should
be
entirely pragmatic decision making
and there's something that i think is
just massive and it's a reason that i'm
emergency wiring money over into my
stock broker
so that i can buy as much of a certain
stock as
possible this is the stock that he
claimed
would quintuple in value i'm sure you
noticed
the title of the video was claiming that
it was going to quintuple
in value this year you'll hear him in
just a moment now clarify
that he thinks it will at least triple
in value or quintuple in value within
one year
but that it is much more likely in his
opinion to increase
by 10 times to increase 10 to 1
in the space of one year and you are
looking at the chart
right now of what actually happened
to this stock he made that prediction
he made that commitment on february 27th
of 2021 and you tell me
what the consequences are for him as a
youtuber for him as a man
for him if you have any sense of
personal
integrity what are the consequences for
you when you've come on the internet
and made such a preposterous claim that
proved
to be false stick around for a deep dive
into a stock that i think is going to do
at least a 3x multiple by the end of the
year but i think more like a 5
to a 10x multiple what i hear from brian
turner
vegan bodybuilder turned amateur
stock market analyst brian turner is
that
he believes in this company that it's a
good company that he feels he has a
moral commitment
to keep on supporting this or that
company
several companies he says but even when
their stock market price
goes down and he believes in the future
of these particular companies to make
money
and it's blind faith because he has
no understanding at all
of how they make money of why this would
be a good or a bad
year in that particular market or why
this would be a good or a bad
decade coming up for that business
so let's talk about what stock that i'm
about to yolo
all of my money into and make a big big
big all or nothing bet on because i
think it's gonna do extremely well this
year
so the stock that i'm talking about that
i'm extremely bullish on it is ticker
symbol
spse space this is virgin galactic
in my opinion i think the stock can make
it well past
80 by the end of this year and i'll give
you my price targets for next year
one of the businesses that hiding in my
room
invested in their technology
is to make microscopic mirrors
mounted on a tiny motor that lets the
mirror tilt
back and forth
that sound like a highly profitable
business to you in 2021
well the use of this sort of tiny mirror
is to reflect a laser
to scan a barcode this is not the only
use
it can use with a variety of laser
scanning and laser projection activities
have a very accurate
very fast moving very small mirror
how much do you know about that business
how much could you possibly understand
with or without doing research
to come up with a projection of how good
or bad an investment that is
over the long term now this youtuber if
you've never heard of him before hiding
in my room
his distinctive trait is that he is
honest about things
that other people are dishonest about
and that makes his youtube channel
somewhat interesting
even though he lives a life that is
frankly very boring
and he was brutally honest about what
his method
of research was before choosing which
stocks to invest in
when he was playing the stock market he
would just go around to the most popular
youtubers
and he would listen to the stocks that
they were hyping up
and he defended this at some like as
being a good or a great method
of doing stock market research and he he
recommended it
to you in the audience
the role of faith blind faith
belief and imagining yourself
as being engaged in making a moral
judgment and engaging in a kind of moral
exercise making the world a better place
that you yes you have chosen a
good company and you are going to be
rewarded
for supporting that good company in the
good work
that they do because you you're a good
person
in this sense again it's not a religion
but it's a completely pragmatic area of
human problem solving
that religious attitudes start to creep
into and there's this strange
moralization of what these people are
doing
often enough leading to them bankrupting
themselves but not all the time
so brian turner just lived through
the collapse of the stock market price
for virgin galactic
this youtube video will probably be
demonetized and censored
because i just said the words virgin
galactic it's it's not as naughty as it
sounds
this is a space tourism project now
how much do you know about the potential
profitability of space tourism
i'd say that's somewhat harder to
research
than microscopic mirrors used to reflect
laser rays the irony is here let's just
contrast this
to part of the stock market i think
everyone in my audience
understands quite well video games
video games are high tech but all of you
probably have a sense
of oh yeah yeah well this is how video
games make money like
selling the actual games do you
understand the nature of the
entertainment
understand the nature of the demand and
you have some feeling
that any given year might be good for
nintendo
but bad for the sony playstation you
have a sense of
what the giants are moving around in the
market you may even have a sense of what
the niche markets are
oh well there's retro gaming and there's
mobile phone gaming
and how they fit together and how
success in one area
means failure in another you have no
idea
what the names of the other
manufacturers of microscopic mirrors are
you don't know the competing
technologies
it doesn't have to be done with a mirror
there's more than one way to do that
there's more than one way to scan a
barcode there's more than one to scan a
qr code
right you have no idea i remember i went
through this when i was doing analysis
of the rubber market
i talked to these so-called experts
because i'd done some research on it
they did not
realize what the alternative products
were
rubber is rubber is not the only way to
make a seal on a jar
guys you know what i'm saying there's
more than one sticky plastic substance
here
competing for the same type of
manufacturing right you know
none of this about space travel
or about reflective mirrors right you're
caught up in mass media hype
and you start to moralize the decision
i'm a good person
because i'm supporting you know the
future of space exploration or something
like this
you have no idea how much revenue this
could make in the next five years 16
years
or what the threats to that revenue
stream might be what the alternatives
what the competition are
you know so on and so forth so it is it
is peculiar that they're not investing
in something they might feel
comfortable with like nintendo you might
feel you understand the risks and
opportunities and you have some sense of
is this going to be a good year for
nintendo is nintendo going to expand
their business or as successful as they
are are now going to a sunset phase
where they're where they're going to
contract brian turner
vegan bodybuilder turned stock market
investment analyst brian turner
he defends his decision to buy
and hold to support virgin galactic
by presenting you with a series of if
statements followed by the best case
scenario imaginable and what's telling
to me
is that every single positive projection
he's making doesn't have to do with
income doesn't have to do with providing
a service no other company can provide
or providing a service
ten percent better than their
competition can provide no it's not
based on actually reading
financial reports or projections or
analysis of so-called fundamentals i.e
reality no no no no no
his view of the future is a series of
press junkets
in which they're going to have launches
and testings and they're going to have
celebrity endorsements
they're going to have famous celebrities
get on this rocket ship
and go into orbit and then come back
down and do interviews and take
instagram photos of themselves
and say how wonderful it was and that
this
will propel ahead the value of the price
on the stock market
[Music]
and the sad part is we all know
there's a sense in which he's right i do
think that the celebrity thing
is really what's going to push it now
it's hard right now to see that but if
you stick around for the long run
in my opinion that's what we're going to
be seeing and i think that is going to
be huge
price catalyst if you were investing in
a stock for a period of just
five days or just 30 days
the fact that a celebrity has said
something positive about that brand
or that there's been a you know an
announcement from the ceo
that the press attended with some kind
of spectacle like a rocket ship
taking off or landing or what have you
that can
in the short term cause a stock to rise
in value
if you are day trading you might be
interested in the effect that could have
on the stock price
for six hours but it's mysterious to me
that all of these people instead
moralize the commitment they're making
on the basis of this mass media hype
this form of economic entertainment
i can't even say edutainment because at
the end of it
you end up more ignorant than you were
at the beginning
they want to take this kind of
short-term speculative activity in
response to mass media hype
and moralize it into a long-term
commitment
where they believe in the company and
they remain committed to the company
and they imagine they're making the
world a better place for this commitment
and they stick with it even when the
value
of the stock tanks all right virgin
galactic you guys have asked for an
update with what's going on with this
stock and
what is going to happen in the future
because a lot of people have been losing
faith
and losing patience as this stock
continues to tumble and tumble i'm still
investing
i'm still holding i'm not scared at all
of course like i said it's painful
to see it go down but i have no uh no
faith
shaking or anything like that
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice